Will Streaming Deals Work for Farmers? One Company Is Showing it Can
By: Jason Stevens
Read online > 
Input Capital is providing cash to farmers of Canada’s most profitable crop.

They have set out to re-apply the alternative means of financing that has become so successful in the mining industry.

For those who are unfamiliar with the term, a “stream” is a purchase agreement, made in exchange for an upfront cash deposit, which provides the right to purchase all or a portion of production at a pre-arranged price.

Streaming companies have been working overtime to provide the mining sector with capital for mine development and, recently, to repair broken balance sheets. Recent streaming deals include:

Franco-Nevada: $610 million silver stream at Teck Resources’ Antamina Mine in Peru
Royal Gold: $610 million stream at Barrick’s Pueblo Viejo Mine in the Dominican Republic
Orion Mine Finance & Blackstone Tactical Opportunities: $150 million stream at Pretivm Resources’ Brucejack Project in northern British Columbia
Can it work for farming?

In his recent interview, Henry Bonner sits down with Brad Farquhar of Input Capital to discuss what the streaming model is and how the Saskatchewan-based company is applying it to farming.

You don’t want to miss Brad’s explanation of:

How the business differs from mining streams
Where they see the opportunity in farming
How the streaming model helps farmers
How Input Capital has grown from 0 to 78 streaming deals in 3 years
Listen to the full audio MP3>

Read the full interview transcript HERE.

You can find out more about Input Capital at http://investor.inputcapital.com.

Over to you: Do you think streaming can be applied to other sectors/businesses? Email me. I’d love to hear your thoughts.

Jason Stevens is an Investment Executive with over 13 years of experience in natural resources. He has been a featured contributor to industry sites such as Accredited Investor Markets, Resource Investing News, and Financial Survival Network.

For questions or comments regarding this article, or on investing in mining, energy, or agriculture, you can reach the author, Jason Stevens, by phone 760-444-5254 or email jstevens@sprottglobal.com.

